---
header-includes:
  - \include{../macros.tex}
---

# CS 427 Homework 14

## Robert Detjens

---

## Question 1

> Alice and Bob are going to perform three instances of Diffie-Hellman key agreement. The protocol says that each time
> they should choose $a, b$ exponents randomly. Unfortunately, the programmer that they hired was asleep during the DHKA
> lecture in CS427, and provided a stupid implementation of DHKA. Instead of random exponents, they use sequential
> exponents. That is, Alice & Bob use random exponents $a, b$ in the first DHKA, then $a+1, b+1$ in the second, $a+2,
> b+2$ in the third.
>
> Eve observes all of these DHKA interactions as an eavesdropper. She later learns the key derived from the second DHKA
> instance. Describe how she can now compute the first and third DHKA keys.

Diffie-Hellman allows two parties to generate a shared secret over a public connection. This is achieved via cyclic
group exponents over a modulus space. Recovering $x$ from $g^x$ in $\G$ is the discrete logarithm problem and thus is
NP-hard. However, due to the incremental scheme of this DHKA exchange, the

Eve knows the following:

|                      |                                         |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| $g$                  | publicly known DH generator             |
| $g^a$, $g^b$         | public from the first DH exchange       |
| $g^{a+1}$, $g^{b+1}$ | public from the second DH exchange      |
| $g^{a+2}$, $g^{b+2}$ | public from the third DH exchange       |
| $g^{(a+1)(b+1)}$     | derived key from the second DH exchange |

The first and third keys can be expressed as functions of these known values, as follows:

The first DH key:

\begin{align*}
  g^{ab} &= \frac{g^{(a+1)(b+1)}}{g^a * g^b * g} \\
         &= \frac{g^{ab + a + b + 1}}{g^{a + b + 1}} \\
         &= g^{ab}
\end{align*}

The third DH key:

\begin{align*}
  g^{(a+2)(b+2)} &= \\
  g^{ab + 2a + 2b + 4} &= g^{(a+1)(b+1)} * g^a * g^b * g^3 \\
                  &= g^{ab + a + b + 1} * g^a * g^b * g^3 \\
                  &= g^{ab + a + a + b + b + 1 + 3} \\
                  &= g^{ab + 2a + 2b + 4} \\
\end{align*}
