# Elevator Pitches

## K8S Deployment Pipeline

---

### Highly Technical

I'm Robert Detjens, and we have made a Kubernetes Deployment Pipeline. This
script takes source code and automatically builds and deploys the application to
a Kubernetes cluster. A developer can enter their repository and some config
information into our deployment website, and this will kick off a build process
to build the application's Docker container image, and then setup that container
to run on a Kubernetes cluster with all the correct ports and such needed. This
allows the developer to not worry about how their application will be deployed
and focus on development.

### Average Joe

I'm Robert Detjens, and we have made a Kubernetes Deployment Pipeline. This
program automates the complicated process of setting up all the behind the
scenes work to make a website run. This process can be a source of stress for
people who don't know how it works, so this project is hiding all of that
complicated stuff behind a simple interface. The website maker tells our program
where to find the website files and how it listens for stuff, and our program
will set it up automatically.

### 6th Grader

I'm Robert Detjens, and we have made a Kubernetes Deployment Pipeline. Imagine
you just made some cool new drawing, and you want to show it to your parents and
friends at school. However, it take a long time to go to your parents, and then
to your friend's house, and then to another friend's house, etc. What we've done
is make a thing that will take your picture and show it to all the people you
want, without you having to do all the work. You write down all the people you
want to see your picture on the back, and it will read those and go show it to
them. That way, you can get right back to work drawing another one!
